307 New Hydroelectric Projects Identify hydroelectric projects proposed or under construction by country and location. Detailed description of nature, extent, purpose, problems, and consequences is desirable. Relevant documents would contain as a minimum a clear statement that a hydroelectric project is planned or construction is under way and the location of the project. Renovation of existing facilities would be judged not relevant unless plans call for a significant increase in acre-feet or reservoir or a marked change in the environmental impact of the project. Arguments for and against proposed projects are relevant as long as they are supported by specifics, including as a minimum the name or location of the project. A statement that an individual or organization is for or against such projects in general would not be relevant. Proposals or projects underway to dismantle existing facilities or drain existing reservoirs are not relevant, nor are articles reporting a decision to drop a proposed plan. 
310 Radio Waves and Brain Cancer Evidence that radio waves from radio towers or car (mobile) phones affect brain cancer occurrence. Persons living near radio towers and more recently persons using car (mobile) phones have been diagnosed with brain cancer. The argument rages regarding the direct association of one with the other. The incidence of cancer among the groups cited is considered, by some, to be higher than that found in the normal population. A relevant document includes any experiment with animals, statistical study, articles, news items which report on the incidence of brain cancer being higher/lower/same as those persons who live near a radio tower and those using car (mobile) phones as compared to those in the general population. 
321 Women in Parliaments Pertinent documents will reflect the fact that women continue to be poorly represented in parliaments across the world, and the gap in political power between the sexes is very wide, particularly in the Third World. Pertinent documents relating to this issue will discuss the lack of representation by women, the countries that mandate the inclusion of a certain percentage of women in their legislatures, decreases if any in female representation in legislatures, and those countries in which there is no representation of women. 
325 Cult Lifestyles Describe a cult by name and identify the cult members' activities in their everyday life. A relevant document would include the name of the cult and offer information about the members' lifestyles. It may include how they dress or what they do to attain the ultimate goal of the organization. A relevant document may tell what they eat or how they contribute to the cult. Just the mention of the existence of a cult by name with no other clarifying information would not be relevant. 
330 Iran-Iraq Cooperation This query is looking for examples of cooperation or friendly ties between Iran and Iraq, or ways in which the two countries could be considered allies. A relevant document would mention such things as mutually beneficial economic, military, religious, or social relations; cooperation on border control or treatment of minorities; collaboration in getting around trade sanctions placed upon either country, etc. 
336 Black Bear Attacks A relevant document would discuss the frequency of vicious black bear attacks worldwide and the possible causes for this savage behavior. It has been reported that food or cosmetics sometimes attract hungry black bears, causing them to viciously attack humans. Relevant documents would include the aforementioned causes as well as speculation preferably from the scientific community as to other possible causes of vicious attacks by black bears. A relevant document would also detail steps taken or new methods devised by wildlife officials to control and/or modify the savageness of the black bear. 
341 Airport Security A relevant document would discuss the effectiveness of efforts to better scrutinize passengers and luggage on all flights, but particularly international flights. A relevant document would contain reports on what steps airports worldwide have taken to better scrutinize passengers and their luggage on domestic and international flights and to step up screening of all carry-on baggage. With increased concerns about terrorism, articles on airport security relating in particular to additional steps taken by airports to increase flight safety would be relevant. The mere mention of enhanced security does not constitute relevance. Additional steps refer to something beyond just passenger and carry-on screening using the normal methods. Examples of new steps would be additional personnel, automated screening processes, sophisticated monitoring and screening devices, whole body imaging techniques, and extraordinary measures to screen luggage in the baggage compartment. 
344 Abuses of E-Mail The availability of E-mail to many people through their job or school affiliation has allowed for many efficiencies in communications but also has provided the opportunity for abuses. What steps have been taken world-wide by those bearing the cost of E-mail to prevent excesses? To be relevant, a document will concern dissatisfaction by an entity paying for the cost of electronic mail. Particularly sought are items which relate to system users (such as employees) who abuse the system by engaging in communications of the type not related to the payer's desired use of the system. 
345 Overseas Tobacco Sales Health studies primarily in the U.S. have caused reductions in tobacco sales here, but the economic impact has caused U.S. tobacco companies to look overseas for customers. What impact have the health and economic factors had overseas? To be relevant, an item will discuss either an increase or decrease in the sales of U.S. tobacco products overseas, and attribute this to health findings or more aggressive marketing by U.S. companies or the foreign companies they own or cooperate with. 
347 Wildlife Extinction The spotted owl episode in America highlighted U.S. efforts to prevent the extinction of wildlife species. What is not well known is the effort of other countries to prevent the demise of species native to their countries. What other countries have begun efforts to prevent such declines? A relevant item will specify the country, the involved species, and steps taken to save the species. 
350 Health and Computer Terminals Is it hazardous to the health of individuals to work with computer terminals on a daily basis? Relevant documents would contain any information that expands on any physical disorder/problems that may be associated with the daily working with computer terminals. Such things as carpel tunnel, cataracts, and fatigue have been said to be associated, but how widespread are these or other problems and what is being done to alleviate any health problems. 
353 Antarctica exploration Identify systematic explorations and scientific investigations of Antarctica, current or planned. Documents discussing the following issues are relevant: - systematic explorations and scientific investigations of Antarctica (e.g., seismology, ionospheric physics, possible economic development) - other research currently conducted or planned for the future - banning of mineral mining Documents discussing tourism are non-relevant. Documents discussing "disrupting scientific experiments" are non-relevant unless a specific experiment is identified. 
354 journalist risks Identify instances where a journalist has been put at risk (e.g., killed, arrested or taken hostage) in the performance of his work. Any document identifying an instance where a journalist or correspondent has been killed, arrested or taken hostage in the performance of his work is relevant. 
355 ocean remote sensing Identify documents discussing the development and application of space-borne ocean remote sensing. Documents discussing the development and application of space-borne ocean remote sensing in oceanography, seabed prospecting and mining, or any marine-science activity are relevant. Documents that discuss the application of satellite remote sensing in geography, agriculture, forestry, mining and mineral prospecting or any land-bound science are not relevant, nor are references to international marketing or promotional advertising of any remote-sensing technology. Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) employed in ocean remote sensing is relevant. 
356 postmenopausal estrogen Britain Identify documents discussing the use of estrogen by postmenopausal women in Britain. The use of hormone replacement therapy outside of the United Kingdom is not relevant. United Kingdom and British development and marketing of estrogen suppressing drugs are relevant. 
362 human smuggling Identify incidents of human smuggling. A relevant document shows an incident of humans (at least ten) being smuggled. The smugglers would have to realize a monetary gain for their actions, while the people being smuggled may or may not be willing participants. 
363 transportation tunnel disasters What disasters have occurred in tunnels used for transportation? A relevant document identifies a disaster in a tunnel used for trains, motor vehicles, or people. Wind tunnels and tunnels used for wiring, sewage, water, oil, etc. are not relevant. The cause of the problem may be fire, earthquake, flood, or explosion and can be accidental or planned. Documents that discuss tunnel disasters occurring during construction of a tunnel are relevant if lives were threatened. 
367 piracy What modern instances have there been of old fashioned piracy, the boarding or taking control of boats? Documents discussing piracy on any body of water are relevant. Documents discussing the legal taking of ships or their contents by a national authority are non-relevant. Clashes between fishing vessels over fishing are not relevant, unless one vessel is boarded. 
372 Native American casino Identify documents that discuss the growth of Native American casino gambling. Relevant documents include discussions regarding Native American casino gambling: its social implications, effects on local and Native American economies, and legal aspects related to Native American tribal autonomy. 
375 hydrogen energy What is the status of research on hydrogen as a feasible energy source? A relevant document will describe progress in research on controlled hydrogen fusion or the use of hydrogen as fuel to power engines. 
378 euro opposition Identify documents that discuss opposition to the use of the euro, the European currency. A relevant document should include the countries or individuals who oppose the use of the euro and the reason(s) for their opposition to its use. 
379 mainstreaming Identify documents that discuss mainstreaming children with physical or mental impairments. A relevant document will include the pros and cons of mainstreaming children with physical or mental impairments, the benefits to the impaired child, as well as the attitude, beliefs and concerns of teachers and school administrators with regard to taking time away from the "normal children". 
389 illegal technology transfer What specific entities have been accused of illegal technology transfer such as: selling their products, formulas, etc. directly or indirectly to foreign entities for other than peaceful purposes? To be relevant, a selected document must specifically identify a person, company, or governmental entity which provided articles useful for hostile purposes to entities outside of their own country and such provision violated the laws of the provider's country. 
393 mercy killing Identify documents that discuss mercy killings. All individual cases of mercy killing are relevant, except that "letters to the editor" mentioning cases are not relevant. The removal of life support systems is relevant. A general mention or description of a case without specifics, such as victim's name are not relevant. Cases determined to be a murder-suicide are not relevant. 
394 home schooling Identify documents that discuss the education of children at home (home schooling). A relevant document would contain any data on the education of children in a home environment. Included could be data on where, by whom, community acceptance, and successes. Additional data on programs aiding the education of disadvantaged children in an away-from-school environment such as mobile vehicle classrooms would be considered as home schooling and are therefore relevant. 
397 automobile recalls Identify documents that discuss the reasons for automobile recalls. A relevant document will specify major or minor reasons for automobile recalls by car manufacturers. Documents that discuss truck recalls are not relevant. 
399 oceanographic vessels Identify documents that discuss the activities or equipment of oceanographic vessels. Relevant documents will contain information on the activity of oceanographic vessels regardless of nationality. Such items as undersea mapping, monitoring global warming, marine environmental monitoring and the use of deep sea robots to search for sunken ships are relevant to oceanography activity. Also relevant are such actions as using the vessel for research and development of new equipment or exploring oceanic resources. Any reference to equipment in use aboard an oceanographic vessel is relevant. Documents that identify a vessel as a survey ship which is involved in oceanographic activity is also relevant. 
400 Amazon rain forest What measures are being taken by local South American authorities to preserve the Amazon tropical rain forest? Relevant documents may identify: the official organizations, institutions, and individuals of the countries included in the Amazon rain forest; the measures being taken by them to preserve the rain forest; and indications of degrees of success in these endeavors. 
404 Ireland, peace talks How often were the peace talks in Ireland delayed or disrupted as a result of acts of violence? Any interruptions to the peace process not directly attributable to acts of violence are not relevant. 
408 tropical storms What tropical storms (hurricanes and typhoons) have caused significant property damage and loss of life? The date of the storm, the area affected, and the extent of damage/casualties are all of interest. Documents that describe the damage caused by a tropical storm as "slight", "limited", or "small" are not relevant. 
414 Cuba, sugar, exports How much sugar does Cuba export and which countries import it? A relevant document will provide information regarding Cuba's sugar trade. Sugar production statistics are not relevant unless exports are mentioned explicitly. 
416 Three Gorges Project What is the ongoing status of The Three Gorges Project? A relevant document will provide the projected or actual date of completion of the project, its estimated or actual total cost, or the estimated or ongoing electrical output of the finished project. Discussions of the social, political, or ecological impact of the project are not relevant. 
419 recycle, automobile tires What new uses have been developed for old automobile tires as a means of tire recycling? A relevant document must show advantageous uses of recycled tires, such as: destructive distillation of scrap rubber for valuable chemicals, reef building for fish habitats, filler or binder in asphalt roadway mixes, and burning in a controlled environment for heat generation. 
422 art, stolen, forged What incidents have there been of stolen or forged art? Instances of stolen or forged art in any media are relevant. Stolen mass-produced things, even though they might be decorative, are not relevant (unless they are mass-produced art reproductions). Pirated software, music, movies, etc. are not relevant. 
423 Milosevic, Mirjana Markovic Find references to Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic. Any mention of the Serbian president's wife is relevant, even if she is not named. She may be referred to by her nickname, Mira. A general mention of his family, without specifying his wife, is not relevant. 
426 law enforcement, dogs Provide information on the use of dogs worldwide for law enforcement purposes. Relevant items include specific information on the use of dogs during an operation. Training of dogs and their handlers are also relevant. 
427 UV damage, eyes Find documents that discuss the damage ultraviolet (UV) light from the sun can do to eyes. A relevant document will discuss diseases that result from exposure of the eyes to UV light, treatments for the damage, and/or education programs that help prevent damage. Documents discussing treatment methods for cataracts and ocular melanoma are relevant even when a specific cause is not mentioned. However, documents that discuss radiation damage from nuclear sources or lasers are not relevant. 
433 Greek, philosophy, stoicism Is there contemporary interest in the Greek philosophy of stoicism? Actual references to the philosophy or philosophers, productions of Greek stoic plays, and new "stoic" artistic productions are all relevant. 
435 curbing population growth What measures have been taken worldwide and what countries have been effective in curbing population growth? A relevant document must describe an actual case in which population measures have been taken and their results are known. The reduction measures must have been actively pursued; that is, passive events such as disease or famine involuntarily reducing the population are not relevant. 
436 railway accidents What are the causes of railway accidents throughout the world? A relevant document provides data on railway accidents of any sort (i.e., locomotive, trolley, streetcar) where either the railroad system or the vehicle or pedestrian involved caused the accident. Documents that discuss railroading in general, new rail lines, new technology for safety, and safety and accident prevention are not relevant, unless an actual accident is described. 
439 inventions, scientific discoveries What new inventions or scientific discoveries have been made? The word "new" in the description is defined as occurring in the 1990s. Documents that indicate a "recent" invention or scientific discovery are considered relevant. Discoveries made in astronomy or any scientific discoveries that are not patentable are not relevant. 
442 heroic acts Find accounts of selfless heroic acts by individuals or small groups for the benefit of others or a cause. Relevant documents will contain a description of specific acts. General statements concerning heroic acts are not relevant. 
443 U.S., investment, Africa What is the extent of U.S. (government and private) investment in sub-Saharan Africa? All references to U.S. Governmental and private assistance to sub-Saharan Africa are relevant. Documents discussing contributions by reason of U.S. membership in international aid organizations are also relevant. 
445 women clergy What other countries besides the United States are considering or have approved women as clergy persons? To be relevant, a document must indicate either a country where a woman has been installed as clergy or a country that is considering such an installation. The clergy position must be as church pastor rather than some other church capacity (e.g., nun or choir member). 
614 Flavr Savr tomato Find information about the first genetically modified food product to go on the market, Flavr Savr (also Flavor Saver) Tomato developed by Calgene. Documents about genetically engineered food in general are not relevant; relevant documents must include specifics regarding the Flavr Savr tomato. 
620 France nuclear testing How did France respond to protests against its nuclear testing in the South Pacific? A document containing information regarding any type of protest by any one is relevant as long as France's response is also included in the document. 
626 human stampede Find reports of human stampedes that have resulted in 20 or more deaths. Documents that mention people being killed by animal stampedes are not relevant. Relevant documents could mention human stampedes in any public place such as a sporting event, bar, restaurant or entertainment event. 
646 food stamps increase Find documents that discuss an increase in the number of people receiving food stamp benefits. Documents that discuss changes in the law allowing more eligible food stamp recipients are relevant. Documents that imply that a certain group of people, such as immigrants, will be eligible for food stamps are also relevant. 
677 Leaning Tower of Pisa What efforts have been made to stabilize the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and how successful have the efforts been? Relevant documents provide discussions of the current condition of the tower, describe reinforcement measures taken, and/or provide measurements reflecting change in the tower. 
690 college education advantage Find documents which describe an advantage in hiring potential or increased income for graduates of U.S. colleges. Relevant documents cite some advantage of a college education for job opportunities. Documents citing better opportunities for non-college vocational-training is not relevant. 
